
Whai is docker?
docker is a platform which used to create,bild and run application in isolated eveornment which is called conatiners. conatiners includes everything
which needs to run an appliaction like code,libreries,dependies and configuration.

Why do we use Docker?
1. Portability:  	Docker containers can run on any system that supports Docker
2. Isolation:  		Docker containers isolate applications
3. Efficiency:	 	Docker containers are lightweight compared to virtual machines
4. Scalability: 	Docker makes it easy to scale applications horizontally by running multiple containers.
5. Version Control: 	Docker images can be versioned, allowing easy rollbacks and managing different versions of applications.
6: Security: 		Containers provide isolation, which improves security by limiting the impact of a potential security breach within one container.
7:Faster Development and Deployment:

what is dockerfile?
its an simple text file which inclued every instrustion to build and image.

what is image.?
image has all the required things to run an application like like libraices and dependencies.


what is tags in docker

When you build or pull a Docker image, the tag specifies which version of the image you want.It's like naming a snapshot of your app.
docker build -t myapp:1.0 .

what is the differnce between phsical server and docker container.

A physical server is a real computer that runs applications directly using its hardware.
A Docker container is a lightweight, virtual environment that runs applications with all their dependencies, without needing a full computer.

Differnce between copy and add.
so cp used to copy thing from host to container.
ADD is also same but with some other extra functionalities like you Can extract .tar files and other compressed files.

Change Environment Variables (Without Rebuilding the Image)
If you need to change environment variables without modifying the Dockerfile or rebuilding the image, you can pass them when running the container.


What is the difference between docker run and docker start?
Answer:

docker run: Creates and starts a new container from an image.

docker start: Starts a previously stopped container.





docker run -e APP_ENV=production -d my-image

docker --version			-----to check the version
docker build . 				-----to build an image
docker run -p 3000:3000 image id 	-----to run an image
docker ps 				-----to check all the conatiners
docker ps -a 				-----to check all the running conatiners
docker rmi imageid 			-----to delete an image
docker rm 				-----to delete an container
docker --version 			-----to check the version
docker build . 				-----to build an image
docker run -p 3000:3000 image id 	-----to run an image
docker ps 				-----to check all the running images 
docker ps -a 				-----to check all the images				
docker build -t myapp:v1 image id 	-----to specify the tags 
docker run -t myapp:v1 <image_id> 	-----to allowing you to specify the version or tag for the container
docker logs          			-----to check the logs
docker images ls                        -----to check the images
docker run -d <image_name>              -----to run an container in background
docker info                             -----show information about Docker's system usage
docker inspect <container_id_or_name>   -----to view detailed information about a specific container?
docker pull <image_name>                -----to pull a Docker image from Docker Hub
docker stop 				-----to stop an running container

 




